We're going to talk
about how to use
general purpose IO pins
in the Raspberry Pi.
Now, we've already talked
about this in the Arduino.
So, there are pretty
analogous operations
except this time,
we're using Python.
We're writing Python code using
Python packages that are
built into Raspberry Pi
instead of the C stuff
that we're using in the
Arduino or C plus plus stuff,
the libraries that we're
using in the Arduino.
So, start off with this
GPIO.setup function.
Now, what that does
is it sets the direction,
the pin direction.
Is it an input or an output?
Now, this is the same as
the pinMode function in
the Arduino, same operation.
So, if you look at GPIO
setup, takes two arguments.
The first argument
is the pin number
that you want to set.
Second argument is
the direction GPIO.output,
clearly makes it an output.
GPIO.n would make it an input.
So, this is the type of thing
you usually do once at
the beginning of the program.
Right? Just like in the Arduino,
when you set the pinMode,
you'd set that in
the setup function
which would happen once.
Now, let's say here,
we want to assign a pin
value, GPIO.output 13, True.
So, GPIO.output will
assign a value to a pin.
The first argument that it
takes is 13 in this case,
is the pin number that
you want to assign.
The second argument is
the value one to assign
to it true or false,
got to be binary.
So, that's the same as
digital right in the Arduino.
Right. digitalWrite 11
comma HIGH, same thing.
So, that's how you do
this in Raspberry Pi.
Now, so, first,
we talked about setting
up the pin direction,
we talked about writing
a value to an output.
Now, we also want to be able to
read a value from an input,
actually first, let's look at
our example program blink
an LED and we'll talk
about the reading.
So, here's how you might
write the example program.
First thing we do at
the top of the program
is we import some packages.
Since we're using the GPIO pin,
you got to import our RPi.GPIO,
we call as GPIO,
we're calling it GPIO just
for convenience sake.
Import time because
we wanted to sleep
operations in this is because
we want to blink an LED.
Right? So, we need
the time package.
Now, we start off
GPIO.setmode, GPIO.BOARD.
Now, what that does, I
think already said this,
but what that does
is, it tells you,
I think, it tells you
the pin numbering.
Okay. Which pin numbering
we're going to use.
Unfortunately, the
Raspberry Pi has
multiple pin numberings and
you just got to pick one.
We're using the
GPIO.BOARD pin numbering,
so, that's how we
set it. So, fine.
Then, GPIO.setup, we set
pin 13 to be an output,
because presumably, we put,
connected pin 13 to an LED.
Of course, we put
a little resistor in
there so we don't blow
the LED, but an LED.
Then, we in our while loop,
while true. So, infinite loop.
Gpio.output 13, True,
turning on the LED,
then you sleep for one second.
GPIO output 13, false,
turning it off and
sleep for one second.
So, this is simple blinking
of an LED. No big deal.
But this is how you do it in
the Python on Raspberry PI.
Now, reading input pins.
So, we talked about how
you drive an output pin.
How do you read an input pin?
So, first thing, you got
to set it to be an input.
So, you would say
GPIO.setup 13, GPIO.IN.
All right? That
makes it an input.
Then you can read from it and
get a value true or false value.
So, I can say, value
equals GPIO.input 13.
GPIO.input is a function.
It reads some pin
13, and it reads
a value into the variable
value right there,
which is whatever
true-false value,
it's reading a zero or one value
is reading off the pin.
Now, this is the same as
a digital read on Arduino.
Now, one thing about
the Raspberry Pi
is there is no equivalent
to an analog read.
So, Arduino had an analog read,
which would allow you to
read an analog value
off of a pin and
assign a value from I
think it was zero to 1023,
assign that into the to
a variable that corresponds
to the voltage that read on pin.
That doesn't exist
in the Raspberry Pi,
because Raspberry Pi does not
have an analog-to-digital
converter.
So, that's a limitation
of the Raspberry Pi,
but you can do all the
digital operations just fine.